.TH RAINBOW 1 "May 23, 2010"


.SH NAME
rainbow \- Colorize commands output using patterns.


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rainbow
[rainbow options...] command [command args...]

command [command args...] |
.B rainbow
[rainbow options...]


.SH DESCRIPTION
Display commands output colored matching words or regular expressions. If you don't specify a command, STDIN is used.


.SH OPTIONS
These programs follow the usual GNU command line syntax, with long options starting with two dashes (`-'). A summary of
options is included below.

.PP
.B
Common options

.TP
.B
    \-v, \-\-version
    show program's version number and exit.

.TP
.B
    \-h, \-\-help
    show help message and exit.

.TP
.B
    \-\-print-path
    Print config paths and exit.

.TP
.B
    \-\-print-config-names
    Print config names and exit.

.TP
.B
    \-f CONFIG, \-\-config CONFIG
    Load a config file defining patterns. Go to /usr/share/rainbow/configs for examples. The option can be called
    several times.

.TP
.B
    \-\-disable\-stderr\-filtering
    Disable STDERR filtering, which can have unexpected effects on commands directly using tty (such as top).


{%- for filter_group in filter_groups %}
.PP
.B
{{ filter_group.name }}
\- {{ filter_group.help }}
  {%- for filter in filter_group.filters %}

.TP
.B
    {%- if filter.short_option %}
    \-{{ filter.short_option }}, \-\-{{ filter.long_option }} PATTERN
    {{ filter.help }}
    {%- else %}
    \-\-{{ filter.long_option }} PATTERN
    {{ filter.help }}
    {%- endif %}
  {%- endfor %}
{%- endfor %}


.SH EXAMPLES

.TP
Colorize the 'diff' command output using the builtin config:
rainbow diff file1 file2

.TP
Colorize the 'ping' command output using the builtin config:
rainbow ping www.google.com

.TP
Ping Google with IP addresses colorized in red:
rainbow \-\-red '\\d{1,3}\\.\\d{1,3}\\.\\d{1,3}\\.\\d{1,3}' ping www.google.com

.TP
Pipe content to rainbow instead of providing a command:
tail -f my-file.log | rainbow \-\-config my-config


.SH CONFIGS
.TP
The \-f or \-\-config option allows to load patterns defined in a configuration file, for example:
rainbow \-\-config MY_CONFIG
.PP
rainbow will look for the config at the following places, in the following order:
  * $RAINBOW_CONFIGS/MY_CONFIG
  * $RAINBOW_CONFIGS/MY_CONFIG.cfg
  * ~/.rainbow/MY_CONFIG
  * ~/.rainbow/MY_CONFIG.cfg
  * /etc/rainbow/MY_CONFIG
  * /etc/rainbow/MY_CONFIG.cfg
  * <rainbow builtin configs>/MY_CONFIG
  * <rainbow builtin configs>/usr/share/rainbow/configs/MY_CONFIG.cfg

rainbow comes bundled with several configs, for example for the ping, top and diff commands, for Tomcat/JBoss logs, etc.
You can override the default configs with your own ones by placing them in $RAINBOW_CONFIGS, ~/.rainbow or /etc/rainbow.


.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to https://github.com/nicoulaj/rainbow/issues.


.SH AUTHOR
.PP
This manual page was written by Julien Nicoulaud <julien.nicoulaud@gmail.com>,
for the rainbow project (https://github.com/nicoulaj/rainbow), and may be used
by others.
